another operation that happens during
the springtime is cultivation and
cultivation comes in a variety of ways
whether we're disking which is with big
blades that actually turn the soil over
turn the cover crop over to incorporate
it into the soil or spading to further
break up the hard pan again most of the
venues that get cultivated are planted
with max organic type of seed program
which has a bell beans the peas
variation of oats or barley to really
get a good structure of biomass that
we're going to incorporate I don't jump
in and try to chop all of that very
early in the season because again I want
the activity of the weeds that I've
planted spent money to plant to actually
work and then we'll slowly incorporate
them into the soil profile and let them
decompose providing nutrients and
nitrogen and and decomposition of the
weeds for the benefit of the worms and
for the soil structure itself this is
the disc that we all typically use it's
a big heavy-duty armories disc
it's got notch blades in the front for
help that cut up the soil and the and
the weeds for biomass you can see
they're notched these are approximately
24 inches in diameter across the sides
and then in the back we have the smooth
blade disc blades as well and you can
see again despite the wear that we're
probably cutting in three or four inches
with this disc but the main idea is just
to bury the biomass the wheat that we've
grown through the springtime and
incorporate that into our soil structure
in our soil profile and it takes a good
operator to be able to operate this and
drive very smooth and straight down the
vine row and not hit vines or steaks or
end post when he comes in and out of the
rows as well Danielle's been with the
company for about 15 years now he's an
excellent excellent tractor driver and
he knows most of all the equipment and
the ranches with this piece of equipment
he's also very involved with the
spraying at night and for the mildew
programs as well as the insecticide
programs that we do through the growing
season as well and I could say
Danielle's been a very valuable employee
to the company for a number of years and
I respect his experience on using a
tractor and the various pieces of
equipment that we have for use in the
company